API docs migration 2 (#4210)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/articles/local-fonts/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: Use advanced typography with local fonts
subhead:
  Learn how the Local Font Access API allows you to access the user's locally installed fonts and
  obtain low-level details about them
date: 2020-08-24
updated: 2022-07-01
hero: image/admin/oeXwG1zSwnivzpvcUJly.jpg
alt: Page of a font book.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
description: >
  The Local Font Access API enumerates the user's installed local fonts and provides low-level access to
  the various TrueType/OpenType tables
tags:
  - fonts
  - capabilities
feedback:
  - api
---

{{% Aside 'success' %} The Local Font Access API was part of the

> [capabilities project](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/capabilities/) and is now shipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[capabilities project](/blog/capabilities/) and is now available from Chrome 103 on desktop.
```

use-cases, but fail to enable programmatic access to the vector glyph shapes and font tables used by
rasterizers to render the glyph outlines. There is likewise no way to access a web font's binary
data.

- Design tools need access to font bytes to do their own OpenType layout implementation and allow
  design tools to hook in at lower levels, for actions such as performing vector filters or
  transforms on the glyph shapes.
- Developers may have legacy font stacks for their applications that they are bringing to the web.
  To use these stacks, they usually require direct access to font data, something web fonts do not
  provide.
- Some fonts may not be licensed for delivery over the web. For example, Linotype has a license for
  some fonts that only includes [desktop use](https://www.linotype.com/25/font-licensing.html).

The Local Font Access API is an attempt at solving these challenges. It consists of two parts:

- A **font enumeration API**, which allows users to grant access to the full set of available system
  fonts.
- From each enumeration result, the ability to request low-level (byte-oriented) **SFNT container
  access** that includes the full font data.

> ### Current status {: #status }
> 
> <div>
> 
> | Step                                     | Status                                      |
> | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
> | 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]                       |
> | 2. Create initial draft of specification | [In progress][spec]                         |
> | 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [Complete](#feedback).                      |
> | 4. Origin trial                          | Complete                                    |
> | 5. **Launch**                            | **Complete** (Chromium&nbsp;103 on desktop) |
> 
> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we can remove this given it's now launched and we have details up front of support.
